---
layout: post
date: 2016-10-13 +0700
title: Tor Relay Configuration for Any Browsers
categories: [Tech,Guide]    
tags: [Security,Network]
image: 
    path: http://allthingsd.com/files/2013/10/tor-logo.png
    width: 250
    height: 250
---

If you don't know Tor network and the function of Proxy tool, this post will make less sense to you. This post is just a quick guideline to setup tor network with proxy tool for any browsers on Debian Linux environment.
This is a quick explanation of Tor and Proxy tool. Please google them for further details.

### Tor Relay Network & Proxy
Tor,(The Onion Router) Network is a mechanism to relay to the top-level domain, **.onion** anonymously by hopping through worldwide network to conceal the source of the encrypted data packet. Basically, The purpose is to hide your network activities and to get access to the darknet. 

The easiest way to access to onion domains and use tor anonymous service is to download and install tor bundle browser.

However,if you want tor network to enable for all our browsers, we can set up using additional proxy tools to create proxy chains and filter outbound network messages. Keep in mind that Tor is also a proxy and also Burped Proxy, Privoxy, or any other proxy tools can listen and forward messages from browsers to Tor.


### Configuration

This following note describes the way to setup tor with privoxy to forwards all browsing traffic to tor network. I believe it works for all debian system and Ubuntu based distros.

    # 1. Install Tor and Privoxy
    sudo apt-get install tor privoxy

    # 2. Config Privoxy to listen socks4a traffics to localhost port 9050, which is Tor listening port
    echo "forward-socks4a / 127.0.0.1:9050">> /etc/privoxy/config

    # 3. Config tor by adding these settings to tor config
        echo "SafeSocks 1
    WarnUnsafeSocks 1
    SocksListenAddress 127.0.0.1
    SocksPort 9050
    ControlPort auto" >>/etc/tor/torrc

    # 4. start tor and privoxy services
    /etc/init.d/tor start
    /etc/init.d/privoxy start

    # 5. check listening port of tor and privoxy
    netstat -lntup

    # 6. expected to see something like this
    # Active Internet connections (only servers)
    
    #    Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name    
    #    tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:8118          0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      8834/privoxy        
    #    tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:9050          0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      8905/tor            
    #    tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:33165         0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      8905/tor            
    #    tcp6       0      0 ::1:8118                :::*                    LISTEN      8834/privoxy        
        
    # 7. Configure the browser proxy with manual setting and setup http proxy to 127.0.0.1:8118

    # 8. browse *check.torproject.org* to check if the requests go through tor network


## Further Readings

* [Tor Setup- Torrc File Configuration](http://uscyberlabs.com/blog/2012/09/17/tor-setup-torrc-file-configuration/)
* [TOR BROWSER FOR WINDOWS - ONLINE ANONYMITY AND CENSORSHIP CIRCUMVENTION](https://securityinabox.org/en/guide/torbrowser/windows)
* [Quora Q&A: How should I configure my Proxy settings for Tor to work?](https://www.quora.com/How-should-I-configure-my-Proxy-settings-for-Tor-to-work)
